---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vapi_tool_function Resource - vapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a function tool resource in the VAPI system.
---

# vapi_tool_function (Resource)

Manages a function tool resource in the VAPI system.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "vapi_tool_function" "test-vapi_tool_function" {
  name        = "function-name"
  description = "function-description"
  async       = false
  type        = "function"

  server_url    = "https://somewhere.com/api/vapi/functions/basic"
  server_secret = "123asd"

  parameters = {
    type  = "object"
    async = false
    properties = {
      property1 = {
        type        = "string"
        description = "property1 description"
      }
      property2 = {
        type        = "string"
        description = "property2 description"
      }
      property3 = {
        type        = "string"
        description = "property3 description"
      }
      propertyN = {
        type        = "string"
        description = "propertyN description"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `async` (Boolean) Indicates whether the function is asynchronous.
- `description` (String) The description of the function.
- `name` (String) The name of the function.
- `parameters` (Attributes) Function parameters including type, async, and properties. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--parameters))
- `type` (String) The type of the tool (function).

### Optional

- `destinations` (Attributes List) List of destinations to forward calls. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destinations))
- `server_secret` (String, Sensitive) The secret used to authenticate with the server.
- `server_url` (String) The URL of the server where the function is hosted.

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when the tool function was created.
- `id` (String) The ID of the tool function.
- `org_id` (String) The ID of the tool function.
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp when the tool function was last updated.

<a id="nestedatt--parameters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `parameters`

Required:

- `async` (Boolean) Indicates whether the function parameters are async.
- `properties` (Attributes Map) The properties for the function parameters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--parameters--properties))
- `required` (List of String) List of required fields.
- `type` (String) The type of parameters (object).

<a id="nestedatt--parameters--properties"></a>
### Nested Schema for `parameters.properties`

Required:

- `type` (String) The type of the property.

Optional:

- `description` (String) A description of the property.
- `enum` (List of String) List of possible values for the property.



<a id="nestedatt--destinations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destinations`

Required:

- `description` (String) Description for the destination.
- `message` (String) Message to play before forwarding.
- `number` (String) The phone number to forward to.
- `type` (String) The type of the destination (e.g., number).

Optional:

- `extension` (String) The phone number extension to forward to.
- `number_e164_check_enabled` (Boolean) Indicates whether to check the number for E.164 format.
